# Introduction

Since the coronavirus took a hold of our lives we've seen relentless news and studies about different countries approaches to dealing with this, and what factors are likely to have an effect on who is more likely to suffer from the virus. For instance, many studies have shown that people suffering from obesity and diabetes are two of the most likely to categories of people to suffer serious consequences as a result of catching the disease. I was really interested to know if there was a relationship between how much a country suffered from coronavirus deaths and numerous factors, such as diabetes and obesity rates. 

# Method

I did some research into various articles and studies to determine what the leading causes of deaths from covid were and combined this with things I had read since the beginning of coronavirus to compile a good range of variables that could reasonably be expected to be an indicator of covid deaths by country. The variables I decided on were diabetes, obesity and smoking prevalence, gdp, population density, median income, median age, sex ratio and the healthcare quality and access index. Most of the data was found using the world bank data sets, our world in data or the CIA world factbook. I realised the most likely factor in determining covid deaths would be the coronavirus strategy employed by countries but there was no way to find widespread data on this or quantify this in any way. The next challenge was to compile this data into one table and to do this I used PostgreSQL. I used full outer joins to attach all the datasets so all the countries across the datasets were included. Once I had this data in a full table I located the null values for each variable and found data from alternative sources which was placed into the table. I had a particular issue with the median income variable, as around 40 of the countries had null values even after some research and this would be a lot of countries to delete from my data, which could effect the correlation coefficients as the less data the more the outliers have an effect. To get around this I had a think about if there was a more readily available variable which might have a strong relationship with the median income. I thought that logically the gdp per capita of a country might have a strong relationship with the median income and so I plotted a scatter graph of gdp per capita and median income together and found there was indeed a strong positive linear correlation. I used a linear regression to determine the exact relationship and used this to fill in the missing median income values. I used the seaborn package in python to visualize the relationship between the variables, which included a scatter and kernel density estimate pairplot and a correlation coefficient heatmap.

# Results

All the variables except gdp showed a low correlation with the total deaths by country with gdp having a correlation of 0.66 with total deaths. There are a number of reasons there may be no correlations with most of the variables, the first being the unreliability and inaccuracy of the reporting of covid deaths. Even some of the most developed countries like the UK have had issues actually reporting an accurate number of deaths from covid and so figures for many countries may not be truly indicative of the actual total. 

